
Opcode is a single instruction that can be executed by the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). There are a total of 141 opcodes in the EVM, and they are divided into two main categories:

Stack instructions: These instructions operate on the stack, which is a LIFO (last in, first out) data structure.
Memory instructions: These instructions operate on the memory, which is a storage area for data.
The EVM bytecode is a sequence of opcodes that is used to encode a smart contract. The bytecode is generated by a compiler, such as Solidity or Vyper.

To convert bytecode to opcode, you can use a bytecode disassembler. A bytecode disassembler is a tool that can decode the bytecode and display the opcodes that make up the bytecode.

There are many bytecode disassemblers available, both online and offline. Some popular bytecode disassemblers include:

Etherscan bytecode disassembler: This is a web-based bytecode disassembler that can be used to disassemble bytecode from any Ethereum address.
MyCrypto bytecode disassembler: This is a web-based bytecode disassembler that can be used to disassemble bytecode from any Ethereum address.
Solidity Visual Studio Code extension: This is a Visual Studio Code extension that can be used to disassemble bytecode from any Solidity file.
To use a bytecode disassembler, you simply need to provide the bytecode that you want to disassemble. The disassembler will then display the opcodes that make up the bytecode.

Here is an example of how to convert bytecode to opcode using the Etherscan bytecode disassembler:

Go to the Etherscan bytecode disassembler website.
Enter the bytecode that you want to disassemble in the "Bytecode" field.
Click the "Disassemble" button.
The disassembler will display the opcodes that make up the bytecode.