
Ethereum was conceived in 2013 by Vitalik Buterin, a Russian-Canadian programmer and co-founder of Bitcoin Magazine. Buterin was inspired by the potential of blockchain technology, but he believed that Bitcoin was limited in its ability to support decentralized applications. He envisioned a platform that would allow developers to create any kind of decentralized application, from financial services to games to social media platforms.

In November 2013, Buterin published a white paper describing his vision for Ethereum. The white paper was well-received by the blockchain community, and in 2014, Buterin and a team of developers launched a crowdfunding campaign to raise funds for the development of Ethereum. The campaign was a success, raising over $18 million in Ether, the native cryptocurrency of Ethereum.

The first version of Ethereum, called Frontier, was launched in July 2015. Since then, Ethereum has undergone several upgrades, including Homestead (2016), Metropolis (2017), and Serenity (2022). Ethereum is currently in the process of transitioning to a proof-of-stake consensus mechanism, which is expected to make the network more scalable and secure.

Ethereum is one of the most popular blockchain platforms in the world. It is used to power a wide variety of decentralized applications, including decentralized finance (DeFi) platforms, non-fungible tokens (NFTs), and gaming platforms. Ethereum is also the second-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization, after Bitcoin.